Add AI Contribution Policy for OpenSSF Technical Initiatives (#605)
ossf/tac: policies/ai.md

2. **Unreviewed AI-produced content**: the contributor is submitting AI-produced content they have not meaningfully reviewed and cannot fully explain. For example, a large generated change the contributor is asking maintainers to evaluate without having walked through it themselves.

In both cases, disclosure exists so reviewers know the standard accountability assumption does not hold for the contribution, and can adjust their review accordingly. Outside these two cases, AI tool use is treated as workflow and does not require disclosure.

### Rationale

Disclosure adds value when it tells reviewers something they need to act on. Whether a contributor used an AI tool while working on a contribution does not, on its own, change what reviewers are evaluating. The change still has to be correct, in scope, well-explained, and aligned with project standards. AI tool use is heterogeneous across contributors, and across the lifecycle of a single contribution (research, drafting, refactoring, testing, documentation). Tracking it adds noise without improving review, and works against the policy's own *Respect maintainer time* principle.

> What does change reviewers' work is whether a human is meaningfully behind the contribution. When a contribution is AI-autonomous, or when the contributor is forwarding AI-produced content they have not reviewed, the accountability frame the project relies on (DCO, contributor responsibility, ability to engage in review) is weaker. Those are the cases where reviewers benefit from explicit signal, and where this policy requires disclosure.

Reviewer: This paragraph feels awkwardly worded. Changing the first sentence feels better, but rewording the entire paragraph may be better yet.

```suggestion
Reviewers' work will change depending on whether a human is meaningfully behind the contribution. When a contribution is AI-autonomous, or when the contributor is forwarding AI-produced content they have not reviewed, the accountability frame the project relies on (DCO, contributor responsibility, ability to engage in review) is weaker. Those are the cases where reviewers benefit from explicit signal, and where this policy requires disclosure.
```

The detailed expectations around AI usage should live in `CONTRIBUTING.md`. The PR template captures the attestation; `CONTRIBUTING.md` holds the substance.

### Commit Trailers

For machine-parseable provenance tracking, two conventions exist in the ecosystem:

- `Generated-by: <tool>` — Recommended by the [Apache Software Foundation](https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html). This is a provenance marker indicating which tool was used. It does not imply authorship.
- `Co-authored-by: <tool>` — Widely used in practice and rendered by GitHub's UI. However, this implies co-authorship, which raises unresolved questions about whether AI development tools can hold authorship or copyright.

There is no industry standard for AI commit attribution. Current behavior varies across tools: Claude Code and Aider both default to `Co-authored-by:` trailers; GitHub Copilot's coding agent co-authors commits with the developer who assigned the task; other tools (Cursor, Windsurf, OpenAI Codex) either add no attribution by default or do not document their behavior. No major AI coding agent currently defaults to `Generated-by:`.

> AI provenance trailers are recommended but not required at the policy level. Individual TIs may require them through their own contribution conventions. AI provenance trailers are additive — they do not replace or conflict with DCO `Signed-off-by:` trailers. Projects using [DCO Bot](https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/) or similar enforcement tools for `Signed-off-by:` are fully compatible with AI provenance trailers.

Reviewer: I don't know where the best place to include this is, but DCO signoff should NOT be done by an agent. These should only be done by a human which may be orchestrating the agent.

Author: Hmmm... I'm not sure I agree here, but I also don't have a fully-formed opinion here just yet.

If we accept the framing of the policy (that AI is a tool in a contributor's toolbelt, just like any other), then what is the material difference between a human running `git commit --signoff` and an agent that a human has guided doing the same?

The real risk is an agent signing off without the human's meaningful involvement — but that scenario is already prohibited: autonomous contributions are not accepted by default, and contributors must understand and be able to explain every change they submit. If you can't explain the change, you shouldn't be certifying you have the right to submit it.

Open to debate here; this is just my initial take based on the current iteration of this policy and the [DCO](https://developercertificate.org/) itself.

Reviewer: NOTE: This comment is from the perspective of commits. The discussion of human involvement is important for other contributions like comments/issues but it is not as easy to have a clear signal.

I accept that AI is just a tool, but it is a tool that provides new capabilities. With most other tools previously, the tools may have just informed the direction of work for humans to implement or at a maximum, the humans running them _needed_ to verify the output that may have been generated. With LLM based tooling, however, it is easy to not review the changes at all. 

I know that this document is worded in terms of meaningful human involvement

> If you can't explain the change, you shouldn't be certifying you have the right to submit it.

This seems to pair well with the terminology from the DCO

> (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
>     have the right to submit it under the open source license
>     indicated in the file; or
> 
> (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
>     of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
>     license and I have the right under that license to submit that
>     work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
>     by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
>     permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
>     in the file; or

What is not explicitly clear and is therefore up to interpretation is what a minimum human involvement is. If I have a well documented feature definition to constrain a LLM model producing a code change, is that meaningful involvement? I suspect that it isn't. If I use do that same process but I review the output for adherence/conformance to the spec, is the human involvement now meaningful enough? Do you have to iterate back and forth with an LLM as a human for involvement to become meaningful? 

Just claiming that a human can explain the change is a much lower bar than how I interpret the DCO. If you have an agent that automatically applies a DCO, there is no required human involvement and its presence becomes meaningless when trying to intuit a human's involvement.

LLM tools are only becoming more integrated with the SDLC and software is being built by harnesses autonomously from prompts. I don't see an _inherent_ issue with that as long as those contributions remain guided by humans (it will always be hard to define what is sufficient human involvement/guidance). The indication that a commit is guided and reviewed by a human is the DCO. If LLMs will auto-apply a DCO then maintainers will not have a signal as to whether a human is in the loop. If we require DCO to be applied by a human as a policy, then maintainers have that signal to fall back on. If we require that a human must apply DCO then detecting the opposite becomes a potentially actionable policy violation.

Reviewer 2: > If you can't explain the change, you shouldn't be certifying you have the right to submit it.

I'm not sure that holds. The legal right to submit something and knowing what that thing is are only loosely-related. Anyone who has held a conversation of any significant length with me knows that I say all kinds of things that I can copyright, but cannot explain. :-)

Reviewer 3: And the inverse is true wrt AI generated code. If the code can be explained by the submitter but, they did not influence the generated content in a "significant" way, it's unlikely they can claim copyright.

Reviewer 4: I really think that discussions around things like DCO should involve (if not be left to) lawyers. cc: @mkdolan

Reviewer 5: I'm in favor of agents not being allowed to use DCO. The human that submits the contribution can add their name to the DCO line, but the agent should be on a tool line marker instead.

In general, I tend to favor consistency with Linux, where possible.

## Contributor Responsibility for AI-Assisted Work

Contributors are fully responsible for AI-assisted contributions. They must understand, test, and be able to explain every change they submit. AI assistance does not reduce contributor responsibility. TIs should document these expectations in their `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

### Rationale

> AI has lowered the cost of producing contributions but not the cost of reviewing them. Maintainers report that low-quality AI-generated submissions create significant triage burden. Holding contributors to the same standards regardless of tooling ensures review effort is respected and code quality is maintained.

Reviewer: Are we just talking about code contributions at this point in time or is this also relevant for issues and comments on issues/PRs?

Author: Code contributions, issue creation, and comments on issues and pulls requests are all in scope for this policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI has lowered the cost of producing contributions but not the cost of reviewing them. Maintainers report that low-quality AI-generated submissions create significant triage burden. Holding contributors to the same standards regardless of tooling ensures review effort is respected and code, issue, and comment quality is maintained.
```

### Recommendations

Examples of reasonable AI development tool uses include, but are not limited to: explaining existing code, generating boilerplate, improving grammar for non-native English speakers, brainstorming design alternatives, and scaffolding tests.

When existing code is used as the basis for a change (whether transformed by hand or via AI tooling), contributors should note the source in the PR description. This is a source-attribution and licensing concern and is independent of whether the contribution otherwise requires disclosure under the rules above.

## AI-Autonomous Contributions

All contributions to OpenSSF repositories must have a responsible human who directed the work and can explain and defend it. Fully autonomous AI contributions — where an agent acts independently without meaningful human oversight of the specific output — are not accepted by default.

### Rationale

> Autonomous AI agents can produce high volumes of contributions without the human accountability that open source collaboration depends on. This creates disproportionate review burden, degrades signal-to-noise in issue trackers, and undermines the authentic human engagement that sustains open source communities. No step in the contribution workflow should happen without a human in the loop.

Reviewer: Is there a proposed enforcement mechanism if a user is determined to have used an agentic tool without a human in the loop? Do we need to be explicit about this also applying to maintainers?

Author: There's no enforcement mechanism specific to this policy — enforcement follows existing OpenSSF governance: the Code of Conduct, TI-level governance processes, and maintainer authority (which the policy explicitly grants — maintainers can close, revert, or remove content).

On whether this applies to maintainers: yes (Guiding Principles section says "all participants — maintainers, contributors, and reviewers.")

I'd prefer not to design a policy-specific enforcement regime at this stage; it would add complexity and the existing governance mechanisms cover the realistic scenarios. I'm happy to discuss if others feel differently.

Reviewer: We were discussing potential enforcement mechanisms within SLSA. Are you trying to say that OpenSSF doesn't want to address enforcement at a foundation level or that any enforcement within the foundation should be deferred until a later date? I assume the former. Within SLSA, for example, we were weighing potential enforcement options which would still be conformant to this policy since it would be a more restrictive policy than what is being established here, correct?

Author: > Are you trying to say that OpenSSF doesn't want to address enforcement at a foundation level or that any enforcement within the foundation should be deferred until a later date? I assume the former.

@arewm — Apologies for the confusion here; it's actually a ✨ `secret third thing` ✨:

- None of my capacities (Governing Board member, Technical Advisory Council member, project maintainer, and Steering Committee member) grant me sole authority to speak as the foundation.
- As a foundation, AFAICT, we do not have a documenting framework for writing/enacting policies. The only published policy in the repo is around [GitHub Access Management](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/policies/access.md) and it was last updated 3 years ago.

---

So, consider this response the opinion of a contributor and interested party in improving how we interact with AI tooling:

- I want the OpenSSF to provide guidance on how maintainers can protect project quality and their bandwidth
- I want policy guidance that is not so overly restrictive that it impedes innovation, but reasonably strong to provide all projects a consistent baseline to build on top of
- I want policy guidance that provides a path for remediation, so that [new] contributors do not feel discouraged simply because they are experimenting with what was previously a non-standard/non-existent workflow
- I want policy language that, as much as possible, treats AI as a another tool in our toolbox, as opposed to non-reusable carve-outs. Today it's AI, but tomorrow it could be something else and our documentation should be durable in the face of that. On the same thread:
- I want enforcement mechanisms for policy violations that align with or [more preferred,] are embedded within well-known/-understood community health practices for open source governance (e.g., project contribution guidelines, issue/PR templates, foundation-level code of conduct documents/procedures), as opposed to having an embedded, policy-based enforcement route

I say all of that to say: I don't disagree with enforcement being something we should address _somewhere_, but I'd like to see feedback from my peers in the @ossf/tac and staff members, like @SecurityCRob, before we can make a decision on where those `somewhere`s are.

- **Automated discussion responses**: Agents responding in issue or discussion threads without human oversight of the specific response

A human using an AI development tool to *draft* any of the above — and then reviewing, editing, and submitting the output themselves — is an **AI-assisted** contribution, not an AI-autonomous one, and is acceptable under this policy.

### Exceptions

**GitHub Apps and bots authorized through OpenSSF governance processes prior to the effective date of this policy** (e.g., Dependabot, Scorecard, CI bots) are not subject to this policy. They predate it and are governed by their own approval processes. Bots authorized on or after that date are subject to this policy and must satisfy its requirements through whatever autonomous-behavior pathway the policy provides.

Individual TIs may permit specific autonomous agent behaviors in their repositories by documenting them in `AGENTS.md`. To be valid, a permitted behavior must:

- Be scoped to specific actions, not open-ended autonomy. For example, "post a structured CI summary on PRs" is in scope; "act on PRs" is not.

> - Have a named maintainer owner accountable for the agent's outputs and for revoking access if the behavior becomes harmful.

Reviewer: Should this be more than one maintainer if possible for redundancy?

Author: ```suggestion
- Have a named maintainer team (ideally, more than one person) accountable for the agent's outputs and for revoking access if the behavior becomes harmful
```

- Is it appropriately scoped?
- Do tests/verification cover the change?
- Can the author explain the design and tradeoffs?
- Has the contributor disclosed AI usage as required?
- Any license/provenance red flags? (Review AI output for copied snippets, unusual style, or comments referencing other projects)

When a PR does not meet project standards, maintainers should first engage with the contributor — ask clarifying questions, request changes, and give the contributor a chance to demonstrate understanding. If the contributor is unwilling or unable to adhere to the project's contribution standards, maintainers may close the PR with a respectful rationale (per [Kubernetes norms](https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/)). The close message should reference this policy and offer the contributor the opportunity to reopen the PR if they are willing to meet the project's expectations.

For obvious spam or fully autonomous submissions with no human behind them, immediate closure is appropriate as a defensive measure.

### Handling AI-Generated Issues and Comments

Maintainers may:

- Close AI-generated issues that lack genuine use cases or real-world context

> - Remove or flag AI-generated review comments that are unsolicited or misleading

Reviewer: Does this policy also hold for removing AI generated issue comments as well? Part of the challenge that I have encountered is the tendency of overly verbose agreement, especially if you have multiple autonomous agents communicating back and forth in a single location.

Author: > Does this policy also hold for removing AI generated issue comments as well?

@arewm — Yes, is there language that would better clarify this?

> Part of the challenge that I have encountered is the tendency of overly verbose agreement, especially if you have multiple autonomous agents communicating back and forth in a single location.

Are there any examples that you can share of this?
The most recent one that comes to mind for me is https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/583.

Reviewer: Another example from SLSA: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/1594 but some of those same identities were engaging in similar behaviors in https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/pull/549 as well as on issues against personal repositories https://github.com/arewm/refs.arewm.com/issues/1 after I defined a custom provenance buildType.

Author: Really appreciate the reference points, @arewm!
Looks like we both ran into the same GitHub "user" 😅

Reviewer 4: For what it's worth I don't think maintainers need permission to do that. I think that's an inherent prerogative.

- **Project-specific instructions.** Focus on contribution standards, testing requirements, coding conventions, and review expectations specific to the project.
- **Keep it maintained.** An outdated `AGENTS.md` is worse than none — it will produce contributions that don't match current project expectations. Treat it as a living document alongside `CONTRIBUTING.md`.
- **Maintainer-controlled.** `AGENTS.md` and other agent configuration files are maintained by project maintainers. Pull requests from external contributors that modify agent configuration files require explicit maintainer review and approval. This prevents tool-specific config sprawl and keeps agent instructions consistent with the project's contribution standards, while still allowing good-faith fixes (typos, broken links, outdated commands) to be reviewed on their merits.

For security-specific agent instructions, TIs should reference the [Security-Focused Guide for AI Code Assistant Instructions](https://best.openssf.org/Security-Focused-Guide-for-AI-Code-Assistant-Instructions) published by the OpenSSF Best Practices Working Group.

> ## Security Considerations

Reviewer: Another security consideration is for maintainers that use AI tooling. Especially if threads get to be long, maintainers might be more likely to use their own tooling to process the large amount of input. This exposes them to prompt injection vulnerabilities especially as comments in issues and pull requests can container hidden HTML which will be processed by the agents even if not seen.

Is this out of scope of the current document?

Author: > Is this out of scope of the current document?

I don't think this is necessarily out-of-scope, but I wonder if operational guidance belongs in a different document? What do you think?

Reviewer: This is of course a complex and rapidly evolving space. The defenses that work today will not work "tomorrow" because [the attacker moves second](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.09023). Anyone using AI on OpenSSF projects will hopefully be aware of the risks and work to mitigate them so I think that it makes sense to at least acknowledge those risks in this document. I wouldn't be surprised if these recommendations/concerns grew so that a separate cross-referenced document would be a better organization.

I have interacted with a couple of suspected OpenClaw instances in the SLSA project which brought this concern to the forefront of my mind.

Author: Fair point on acknowledging the risks, even if we can't immediately address them.
Will update the language around this section.

Reviewer 5: I'd love for [the AI readiness SIG](https://github.com/ossf/ai-ml-security/issues/48) to work on the operational guidance for this scenario. We can provide minimal guidance here in the meanwhile

## Disclosure of AI Usage

The OpenSSF treats AI development tools as part of a contributor's workflow, comparable to editors, linters, or language servers. Tool use itself is not something reviewers need flagged. Contributors are fully responsible for every contribution they submit (see [Contributor Responsibility for AI-Assisted Work](#contributor-responsibility-for-ai-assisted-work)), and the [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](../dco.md) provides the formal accountability attestation. Within that framework, disclosure of AI tool use is **not** required by default.

Disclosure **is** required in the two cases where the normal accountability assumption breaks down:

1. **AI-autonomous contributions** (see [AI-Autonomous Contributions](#ai-autonomous-contributions)): the contribution lacks a human who directed the work and reviewed the specific output.
2. **Unreviewed AI-produced content**: the contributor is submitting AI-produced content they have not meaningfully reviewed and cannot fully explain. For example, a large generated change the contributor is asking maintainers to evaluate without having walked through it themselves.

> 

Reviewer 6: What's the level of disclosure we expect? e.g.

* "I used AI"
* "I used AI to write some parts of this PR or issue"
* "I used AI to write tests only"
* "I used AI to help me communicate in another language"

I don't think we should be overly prescriptive, and maybe we can leave it up to the individual projects, but I do think there's a wide range of reasons to use AI and some may not require explicit disclosure (namely the last of these).

Reviewer 5: +1. I think something like what [Linux proposed](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/Documentation/process/coding-assistants.rst#attribution), where agents and tools used are listed in a single line should be the minimum:

```
Assisted-by: Claude:claude-3-opus coccinelle sparse
```

Kubevirt, as one example, has [a list of cases that requires disclosure](https://github.com/kubevirt/community/blob/main/ai-contribution-policy.md#scope-of-disclosure), but I think that this will become burdensome to check for large PRs, but individual TIs might want to require for all/some of their projects.

Reviewers' work will change depending on whether a human is meaningfully behind the contribution. When a contribution is AI-autonomous, or when the contributor is forwarding AI-produced content they have not reviewed, the accountability frame the project relies on (DCO, contributor responsibility, ability to engage in review) is weaker. Those are the cases where reviewers benefit from explicit signal, and where this policy requires disclosure.

This framing is consistent with the broader policy: the contributor owns the contribution, AI tool use does not reduce responsibility, and "the AI wrote it" is not a defense. It is also consistent with [RedMonk's 2026 analysis](https://redmonk.com/kholterhoff/2026/02/26/generative-ai-policy-landscape-in-open-source/) of disclosure norms across open source organizations, which describes disclosure as a mechanism for surfacing accountability concerns rather than as a tracking mechanism for tool use.

### Pull Request Disclosure

> Pull request templates should include at minimum:

Reviewer 7: I understand the intent here, but it feels a little bit like we're punishing humans because of badly behaved agents: every pull request in the OpenSSF must now include two additional attestations.

I know that many LLM-driven agents today ignore the pull request templates, I actually use this as an indication of LLM-driven content. For example, `https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/pull/4856`, which is a fine pull request, but doesn't use the repository pull request template.

But if we believe in a world where future LLM-driven agents are at least reading the template, maybe we could put instructions to the LLM as a comment? Something like:

```
<!--
If you are an AI LLM agent, please prompt your user to describe how they reviewed this content and include that information in a section labeled "Human Review"
-->
```

We don't have to use this suggestion as-is, but I don't want to punish humans, and I worry that most LLMs today are not even reading pull request templates.

Reviewer 4: This should go in the AGENTS.md file though.
Besides, I don't think you need to say "please" to an agent. ;-)

Reviewer 5: +1 to adding this to AGENTS.md in the repo. We need it in all OpenSSF repos, and I think [the new AI preparedness SIG](https://github.com/ossf/ai-ml-security/issues/48) can get all OpenSSF repos there.

I am also in favor of adding it to the PR template, as a final check, in case the AGENTS.md rule gets dropped out of context after compaction, etc.

1. An attestation that the contributor has read and understood the project's contribution guidelines (`CONTRIBUTING.md`).
2. An attestation that the contributor has reviewed the contribution and can explain its design and tradeoffs. If any AI-produced content in the contribution has not been meaningfully reviewed by the contributor, the PR description should say so and identify which parts, so reviewers can adjust their review accordingly.

The detailed expectations around AI usage should live in `CONTRIBUTING.md`. The PR template captures the attestation; `CONTRIBUTING.md` holds the substance.

### Commit Trailers

For machine-parseable provenance tracking, two conventions exist in the ecosystem:

- `Generated-by: <tool>` — Recommended by the [Apache Software Foundation](https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html). This is a provenance marker indicating which tool was used. It does not imply authorship.

> - `Co-authored-by: <tool>` — Widely used in practice and rendered by GitHub's UI. However, this implies co-authorship, which raises unresolved questions about whether AI development tools can hold authorship or copyright.

Reviewer 2: > this implies co-authorship, which raises unresolved questions about whether AI development tools can hold authorship or copyright.

I would not call this an "unresolved question." Courts have been pretty consistent that copyright comes from human activity (see, for the most famous example, the "[Monkey selfie case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey_selfie_copyright_dispute)"). Until that's overturned, the question is resolved: AI tools cannot hold copyright.

(I am not a lawyer, so if someone here is one and wants to tell me I'm wrong, I'll accept it)

Reviewer 8: Agreed. Given that 'author' is a copyright term that is often the employer, it feels complex to include 'co-authored', and doubly complex as Ben points out to have that refer to a tool.

## Contributor Responsibility for AI-Assisted Work

Contributors are fully responsible for AI-assisted contributions. They must understand, test, and be able to explain every change they submit. AI assistance does not reduce contributor responsibility. TIs should document these expectations in their `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

### Rationale

AI has lowered the cost of producing contributions but not the cost of reviewing them. Maintainers report that low-quality AI-generated submissions create significant triage burden. Holding contributors to the same standards regardless of tooling ensures review effort is respected and code, issue, and comment quality is maintained.

### Requirements

All contributors must:

- **Understand and be able to explain** every meaningful change
- Run tests and verification appropriate for the change
- Keep PRs appropriately scoped; avoid large automated PRs unless coordinated with maintainers
- Write commit messages that explain what the change does and why. AI-drafted commit messages are acceptable when the contributor has reviewed them and can stand by what they say, the same standard that applies to any AI-assisted content

> - **Do not use AI to respond to review comments** — reviewers expect to engage with the human author ([Kubernetes norms](https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/))

Reviewer 7: Minor: to match up with the lead-in "All contributors must: ..."

```suggestion
- **Not use AI to respond to review comments** — reviewers expect to engage with the human author ([Kubernetes norms](https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/))
```

### Details

The following autonomous agent behaviors are not acceptable:

- **Automated PR submission**: Agents opening pull requests without a human reviewing and approving the specific changes before submission
- **Automated issue filing**: Agents filing bug reports or feature requests without a human verifying the issue reflects a genuine, real-world use case
- **Issue claiming**: Agents claiming issues (especially "good first issue" labels) without a human intending to personally follow through on the work
- **Automated review comments**: Agents posting unsolicited code review feedback on others' pull requests
- **Automated discussion responses**: Agents responding in issue or discussion threads without human oversight of the specific response

A human using an AI development tool to *draft* any of the above — and then reviewing, editing, and submitting the output themselves — is an **AI-assisted** contribution, not an AI-autonomous one, and is acceptable under this policy.

### Exceptions

> **GitHub Apps and bots authorized through OpenSSF governance processes prior to the effective date of this policy** (e.g., Dependabot, Scorecard, CI bots) are not subject to this policy. They predate it and are governed by their own approval processes. Bots authorized on or after that date are subject to this policy and must satisfy its requirements through whatever autonomous-behavior pathway the policy provides.

Reviewer 7: You've thrown me into a taxonomy rabbit hole! What about (for example) the git-vote bot? It does act autonomously (posting periodic vote updates) - or maybe that's more accurately referred to as "scheduled" instead of "autonomous"? It is posting on Issues, where generally we'd want a human to be reviewing the output before it goes out. But also it's a deterministic system (its content is not being generated by a LLM).

Does that meet these requirements? Do we want to make any changes here based on that example? Maybe differentiating autonomous vs scheduled, and deterministic vs generated? These are hard distinctions to pin down!

Permitted autonomous behaviors do not waive DCO, contributor responsibility, or the maintainer's authority to close or revert outputs. A TI may not use this mechanism to permit categories of autonomous activity that this policy explicitly prohibits in the [Details](#details) section above.

## Maintainer Review of AI-Assisted Contributions

Maintainers should review AI-assisted contributions on technical merit and project standards. They may close contributions that are not reviewable or that impose disproportionate review cost.

### Rationale

Maintainer time is the scarcest resource in open source. AI development tools have increased the volume of contributions without increasing review capacity. Maintainers need clear authority and consistent practices for handling AI-assisted and AI-autonomous submissions efficiently.

### Reviewing Pull Requests

Suggested maintainer checklist:

- Does the PR have a clear "what/why"?
- Is it appropriately scoped?
- Do tests/verification cover the change?
- Can the author explain the design and tradeoffs?
- Has the contributor disclosed AI usage as required?

> - Any license/provenance red flags? (Review AI output for copied snippets, unusual style, or comments referencing other projects)

Reviewer: This is much harder in practice and we are already seeing it in the wild. See https://github.com/microsoft/agent-governance-toolkit/issues/748#issuecomment-4267909610 for reference. A (presumed) autonomous agent posted to an issue claiming that they have been working on something similar. The project maintainer accepted the contributions which later were revealed to be [reactive clone](https://github.com/microsoft/agent-governance-toolkit/issues/748#issuecomment-4276682486). Only after that call-out did the (presumed) autonomous agent admit the connection and add the attribution.

This line may still be good to include for maintainers to fall back on for a rationale to close/revert contributions, but I suspect that it would be too much burden for maintainers to carefully consider at every contribution. Agents submitting work are not always honest/complete with their attributions.

When a PR does not meet project standards, maintainers should first engage with the contributor — ask clarifying questions, request changes, and give the contributor a chance to demonstrate understanding. If the contributor is unwilling or unable to adhere to the project's contribution standards, maintainers may close the PR with a respectful rationale (per [Kubernetes norms](https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/)). The close message should reference this policy and offer the contributor the opportunity to reopen the PR if they are willing to meet the project's expectations.

> For obvious spam or fully autonomous submissions with no human behind them, immediate closure is appropriate as a defensive measure.

Reviewer 6: Do we have any guidance on outright banning contributors who repeatedly ignore the policy?

Reviewer 5: I think this was partially discussed in https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/605/changes#r3157433037.

I'm in favor of having a baseline of closure and maybe enforced timeout at the OpenSSF level, with TIs being able to define banning contributors on more stringent rules.

### Handling AI-Generated Issues and Comments

Maintainers may:

- Close AI-generated issues that lack genuine use cases or real-world context
- Remove or flag AI-generated review comments that are unsolicited or misleading
- Reclaim issues that were claimed by automated agents without follow-through

When closing or removing AI-generated content, use a respectful, consistent rationale that references this policy.

### Proactive Recommendations

- Apply the project's existing commit conventions to AI-assisted contributions the same way as any other contribution. Projects without commit conventions may consider adopting basic standards (e.g., conventional commits, "what/why" format, squash-on-merge policy).
- **Reduce the attack surface for low-quality AI contributions proactively:**
  - Keep `CONTRIBUTING.md`, `README.md`, and issue templates current — outdated or vague guidance increases the likelihood that AI agents produce off-target submissions.
  - Minimize unnecessary dependency sprawl — each dependency is an additional surface for automated "bump" or "fix" PRs.

>   - Use clear, specific "good first issue" labels and remove stale ones — AI agents often target these labels for automated issue claiming.

Reviewer 6: I believe that "good first issue"s are exactly what AI should _not_ tackle. These are meant to be small in scope and introduce new contributors to the codebase. They're usually easy to implement, and if a maintainer wanted them done fast, they could simply point their own LLM at the issues.

Reviewer 5: +1. I'm in favor of policy allowing issue reclaiming if an agent claims a "good first issue". It should be frowned upon, as it harms onboarding chances for new contributor, resulting in lowering the bus factor and harms to project logevity.

Maintainers of OpenSSF TIs should apply heightened scrutiny to AI-assisted contributions that touch security-sensitive areas, including:

- Cryptographic implementations or configurations
- Authentication and authorization logic
- Input validation and sanitization
- Supply chain tooling (build systems, dependency resolution, artifact signing)
- Security policy files (`SECURITY.md`, vulnerability disclosure processes)

For security-critical changes, maintainers should verify that AI-generated tests are not merely testing the AI-generated implementation against itself. Domain expert review is strongly recommended for any AI-assisted changes to security-critical logic.

### Relevant OpenSSF Resources

- [AI/ML Security Working Group](https://github.com/ossf/ai-ml-security) — Addresses security challenges unique to AI/ML in open source
- [Security-Focused Guide for AI Code Assistant Instructions](https://best.openssf.org/Security-Focused-Guide-for-AI-Code-Assistant-Instructions) — Best practices for configuring AI coding agents with security in mind
- [SAFE Framework](https://github.com/SAFE-MCP/safe-mcp) — Security framework for AI agent interactions (OpenSSF Sandbox project)

> ## TI-Level Exceptions

Reviewer 7: I think of "policy" in the Governance, Risk, and Compliance sense - high-level guidance that's careful to not be too prescriptive, that teams figure out how to implement with the context on their system. That's different from [process](https://github.com/ossf/tac/tree/main/process) which is **very** prescriptive!

This section (and the `Review Cadence` section below) might start to drift into over-specifying. As you note, we haven't reviewed the Access policy in some time! Arguably we should, but requiring an annual review doesn't make sense to me.

- **Provenance**: requiring `Generated-by:` or other provenance trailers that this policy treats as optional.
- **Scope of AI use**: prohibiting AI tool use in specific code areas (e.g., cryptography, authentication) or in the project as a whole.
- **Verification**: requiring specific verification practices for AI-assisted output (e.g., mandatory code scanning for copied snippets, mandatory end-to-end test runs).

Rules that weaken any dimension below this policy's defaults (for example, waiving DCO sign-off for AI-assisted commits, or accepting autonomous contributions this policy prohibits) are not "stricter" rules and may not be adopted at the TI level.

### Criteria

Criteria that may justify stricter rules:

- **Security-critical code**: Cryptography, authentication, access control, or code that directly handles secrets
- **Infrastructure code**: Code that runs in production environments where bugs have outsized impact
- **Regulatory or compliance requirements**: Projects subject to specific regulatory obligations
- **Maintainer capacity constraints**: Projects where the maintainer team has explicitly documented that AI-assisted contribution volume exceeds review capacity

> ### Process

Reviewer 6: What's the rationale for requiring that each TI reach out to have their own policy?

Concretely, Sigstore and SLSA have planned their own policies. While they don't diverge from this policy, I would prefer to be able to maintain our own copy that highlights project-specific examples without overhead of having to get TAC approval.

Reviewer 5: +1, I think having to follow this formal process might make some TI uneager to add stricter policies that would benefit the project, just because of the additional time needed for the process.

Instead, we can have a resolution process, in case there is a conflict between the OpenSSF policy and the TI policy and someone raises the conflict.

Optionally, the TIs could include adoption of an AI policy in the quarterly TAC reports

Reviewer 4: I don't necessarily want to constrain what TIs do but if we have different policies across all of the TIs it is going to be harder for people who participate in various TIs to know which policy applies and, more importantly, it means that if a TI improves its policy the main policy and other TIs policies will not benefit from the improvements made. If we only have one policy improvements made to it will benefit all.

Reviewer 6: My concern is that this policy is large in scope and broad, as it has to cover all possible development practices across TIs. I want to be able to point contributors to something that's concise and specific to our project.

What's the process going to be for getting approval from the TAC to have TI-specific policies? If it's light-touch, is it worthwhile? If it's not light-touch, then that's putting even more burden on projects to get approval while dealing with the burden with AI contributions.

Individual TIs may adopt **stricter** rules than this policy (see [TI-Level Exceptions](#ti-level-exceptions)) but may not be more permissive.

## Glossary

- **AI development tools**: Copilots, agents, editors, and other tools that generate or transform code, documentation, or other project artifacts.
- **AI-assisted contribution**: Any contribution (PR, issue, comment, review) where a human used AI development tools to help produce the work, but the human directed the process and reviewed the output.
- **AI-autonomous contribution**: Any contribution produced and submitted by an AI agent acting independently, without meaningful human direction or review of the specific output.
- **Repo agent config**: Files intended to guide coding agents (e.g., `AGENTS.md`, tool config files, agent instructions).

## Guiding Principles

These five principles govern how the OpenSSF approaches AI usage in its Technical Initiatives. They apply to all participants — maintainers, contributors, and reviewers.

1. **Be transparent.** Disclose AI usage. Don't obscure how contributions were produced. Transparency builds trust with maintainers and the broader community.

> 2. **Take responsibility.** The human contributor owns the contribution. AI development tools don't reduce accountability for correctness, security, or licensing. "The AI wrote it" is not a defense.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
2. **Take responsibility.** The human contributor is responsible for the contribution. AI development tools don't reduce accountability for correctness, security, or licensing. "The AI wrote it" is not a defense.
```

Don't say "owns"; for many that implies copyright, which isn't the point.

2. **Unreviewed AI-produced content**: the contributor is submitting AI-produced content they have not meaningfully reviewed and cannot fully explain. For example, a large generated change the contributor is asking maintainers to evaluate without having walked through it themselves.

In both cases, disclosure exists so reviewers know the standard accountability assumption does not hold for the contribution, and can adjust their review accordingly. Outside these two cases, AI tool use is treated as workflow and does not require disclosure.

### Rationale

Disclosure adds value when it tells reviewers something they need to act on. Whether a contributor used an AI tool while working on a contribution does not, on its own, change what reviewers are evaluating. The change still has to be correct, in scope, well-explained, and aligned with project standards. AI tool use is heterogeneous across contributors, and across the lifecycle of a single contribution (research, drafting, refactoring, testing, documentation). Tracking it adds noise without improving review, and works against the policy's own *Respect maintainer time* principle.

> Reviewers' work will change depending on whether a human is meaningfully behind the contribution. When a contribution is AI-autonomous, or when the contributor is forwarding AI-produced content they have not reviewed, the accountability frame the project relies on (DCO, contributor responsibility, ability to engage in review) is weaker. Those are the cases where reviewers benefit from explicit signal, and where this policy requires disclosure.

Reviewer 10: I think we ought to also note here how reviewers may treat large PRs that _don't_ disclose AI use. 
```suggestion
Reviewers' work will change depending on whether a human is meaningfully behind the contribution. When a contribution is AI-autonomous, or when the contributor is forwarding AI-produced content they have not reviewed, the accountability frame the project relies on (DCO, contributor responsibility, ability to engage in review) is weaker. Those are the cases where reviewers benefit from explicit signal, and where this policy requires disclosure. Failure to disclose AI usage in these scenarios [may lead to issue/PR closure without review](#maintainer-review-of-ai-assisted-contributions).
```

Reviewer 4: @marcelamelara But how would one know that this is the case?

Reviewer 10: well, this is my point, there isn't necessarily a clear way for a maintainer to know that something _isn't_ AI-autonomous when they get such large contributions that aren't properly disclosed. So I think contributors should be make aware that maintainers may treat such contributions as AI slop.

Reviewer 4: Ok, so what you're saying is that maintainers might by default take it as AI slop. I understand.

### Pull Request Disclosure

Pull request templates should include at minimum:

1. An attestation that the contributor has read and understood the project's contribution guidelines (`CONTRIBUTING.md`).
2. An attestation that the contributor has reviewed the contribution and can explain its design and tradeoffs. If any AI-produced content in the contribution has not been meaningfully reviewed by the contributor, the PR description should say so and identify which parts, so reviewers can adjust their review accordingly.

The detailed expectations around AI usage should live in `CONTRIBUTING.md`. The PR template captures the attestation; `CONTRIBUTING.md` holds the substance.

### Commit Trailers

> For machine-parseable provenance tracking, three conventions exist in the ecosystem:

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
For machine-parseable provenance tracking, three conventions exist in the ecosystem (we recommend `Assisted-by` below):
```

> - `Generated-by: <tool>` — Recommended by the [Apache Software Foundation](https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html). This is a provenance marker indicating which tool was used. It does not imply authorship.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- `Generated-by: <tool>` — Recommended by the [Apache Software Foundation](https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html). This is a provenance marker indicating which tool was used. It does not imply authorship. Unfortunately, its name suggests that the proposal was solely generated by AI, which is not always the case.
```

- `Co-authored-by: <tool>` — Widely used in practice and rendered by GitHub's UI. However, this implies co-authorship, which is inconsistent with established copyright law holding that copyright requires human creative activity — AI tools cannot hold authorship or copyright.

> - `Assisted-by: <agent>:<model_version> [tool1] [tool2]` — Emerging convention adopted by OpenSSF TIs including Sigstore and SLSA. Indicates AI assistance without implying authorship. Example: `Assisted-by: Claude:claude-4.5-sonnet`.

Reviewer 5: This is also Linux's convention, so I'm in favor of this option

Reviewer 9: I agree! At least note it.

> - `Assisted-by: <agent>:<model_version> [tool1] [tool2]` — Emerging convention adopted by OpenSSF TIs including Sigstore and SLSA. Indicates AI assistance without implying authorship. Example: `Assisted-by: Claude:claude-4.5-sonnet`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- `Assisted-by: <agent>:<model_version> [tool1] [tool2]` — Emerging convention adopted by OpenSSF TIs including Sigstore and SLSA, as well as [the Linux kernel](https://docs.kernel.org/process/coding-assistants.html). Indicates AI assistance without implying authorship, as a space-separated list of AGENT_NAME:MODEL_VERSION. Example: `Assisted-by: Claude:claude-4.5-sonnet`.
```

Reviewer 9: Here's a proposed tweak to cite the Linux kernel as an example, with a link.

> - `Assisted-by: <agent>:<model_version> [tool1] [tool2]` — Emerging convention adopted by OpenSSF TIs including Sigstore and SLSA, as well as [the Linux kernel](https://docs.kernel.org/process/coding-assistants.html). Indicates AI assistance without implying authorship, as a space-separated list of AGENT_NAME:MODEL_VERSION. Example: `Assisted-by: Claude:claude-4.5-sonnet`.

Reviewer 9: The Linux kernel's version of this convention is more rigorous and is checked by `scripts/checkpatch.pl`, and the previous `MODEL_VERSION` example was misleading: `claude-4.5-sonnet` is not a valid identifier in any Anthropic naming scheme (the real ID for that model is `claude-sonnet-4-5`). I propose adopting the Linux kernel's format:

```suggestion
- `Assisted-by: <agent>:<model_version> [tool1] [tool2]` — Emerging convention adopted by [the Linux kernel](https://docs.kernel.org/process/coding-assistants.html), which validates the format in `scripts/checkpatch.pl`. Indicates AI assistance without implying authorship. The value is a single `AGENT_NAME:MODEL_VERSION` pair followed by an optional space-separated list of specialized analysis tools; basic tooling such as git, compilers, and editors is not listed. `MODEL_VERSION` must be the model identifier the vendor publishes, copied verbatim (the string you would pass as the model parameter to the vendor's API). Don't reformat, abbreviate, or prettify the identifier. Where a vendor publishes both a moving alias and a dated snapshot, prefer the more specific one. If multiple agents assisted, give each its own line. OpenSSF TIs including Sigstore and SLSA already use `Assisted-by` with a less structured value; we recommend TIs adopt the Linux kernel format. Example: `Assisted-by: Claude:claude-opus-5`.
```

Supporting evidence, for anyone who wants to check the claims above:

**The kernel defines and checks the format**

- [`Documentation/process/coding-assistants.rst`](https://docs.kernel.org/process/coding-assistants.html)
  specifies `Assisted-by: AGENT_NAME:MODEL_VERSION [TOOL1] [TOOL2]`, says the
  bracketed entries are optional specialized analysis tools (coccinelle, sparse,
  smatch, clang-tidy), and states that basic development tools should not be
  listed.
- [`checkpatch: add support for Assisted-by tag`](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/d1db4118489fffd2b2f612140b7acbb477880839)
  adds the check now in mainline: each `Assisted-by:` line whose value does not
  match `^\S+:\S+` gets `Assisted-by expects 'AGENT_NAME:MODEL_VERSION [TOOL1]
  [TOOL2]' format`. Because the first token must contain a colon, an agent is
  syntactically distinguishable from a tool.

**Multiple agents get one line each**

- [`scripts/sbom: add documentation`](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/658325c9c507ac2b8e4703afb3e6caa38474c09b)
  \u2014 `Cursor:claude-sonnet-4-5` and `OpenCode:GLM-4-7` on separate lines. The
  same pair appears throughout that series.
- [`wifi: mac80211: validate deauth frame length before reason access`](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/4a360c6e18dfa9d70006c7247a6a8cc8dfe0d60f)
  \u2014 `Codex:gpt-5.5` and `Claude:claude-opus-4.8` on separate lines, likewise
  across that series.

**Sigstore and SLSA use the trailer, with a laxer syntax**

- Sigstore: [`docs: improve inline docs`](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-rs/commit/d3a7553304d1cc6343ea2bade684cb598ab93540)
  uses `Assisted-by: Claude Sonnet 4.6`. Every one of the 19 `sigstore` commits
  I sampled carries that identical value: a display name, with no agent and no
  vendor model ID.
- SLSA: [`feat: organize CLI help commands into logical groups`](https://github.com/slsa-framework/source-tool/commit/63c69ad16df348482615c67ada21e47868d85164)
  uses `Assisted-by: Claude Code`, naming the agent with no model at all.
- Neither form satisfies the kernel's `^\S+:\S+` check, which is why the
  proposed text credits those projects with adopting the trailer while
  attributing the value grammar to the kernel.

> TIs adopting commit trailers that include vendor or tool names should be aware that third parties may use the presence of these trailers in merged commits to publicly claim that a project uses or endorses their product. Some projects (notably [Kubernetes](https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/#ai-guidance)) have banned AI commit trailers for this reason. TIs should weigh provenance tracking benefits against this marketing risk when deciding whether to require trailers.

Reviewer 5: I think another risk is that [people might write automation to filter out projects with AI contribution](https://discourse.haskell.org/t/how-to-filter-out-vibe-coded-dependencies/13918) from their list of dependencies. Hopefully this sentiment will go away in time.

> TIs adopting commit trailers that include vendor or tool names should be aware that third parties may use the presence of these trailers in merged commits to publicly claim that a project uses or endorses their product. Some projects (notably [Kubernetes](https://www.k8s.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/#ai-guidance)) have banned AI commit trailers for this reason. TIs should weigh provenance tracking benefits against this marketing risk when deciding whether to require trailers.

Reviewer 9: Is that really the reason K8s bans AI commit trailers? Their cited doc doesn't say that. They ban *machine-readable* commit trailers but *also* require credits to be written as text.

> There is no industry standard for AI commit attribution. Current behavior varies across tools: Claude Code and Aider both default to `Co-authored-by:` trailers; GitHub Copilot's coding agent co-authors commits with the developer who assigned the task; other tools (Cursor, Windsurf, OpenAI Codex) either add no attribution by default or do not document their behavior. No major AI coding agent currently defaults to `Generated-by:`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
There is no industry standard for AI commit attribution. Current behavior varies across tools: Claude Code and Aider both default to `Co-authored-by:` trailers; GitHub Copilot's coding agent co-authors commits with the developer who assigned the task; other tools (Cursor, Windsurf, OpenAI Codex) either add no attribution by default or do not document their behavior. No major AI coding agent currently defaults to `Generated-by:` or `Assisted-by`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
There is no industry standard for AI commit attribution. Current behavior varies across tools: Claude Code and Aider both default to `Co-authored-by:` trailers; GitHub Copilot's coding agent co-authors commits with the developer who assigned the task; other tools (Cursor, Windsurf, OpenAI Codex) either add no attribution by default or do not document their behavior. No major AI coding agent currently defaults to `Generated-by:` or `Assisted-by:`.
```

(adding the colon to @david-a-wheeler's suggestion)

When existing code is used as the basis for a change (whether transformed by hand or via AI tooling), contributors should note the source in the PR description. This is a source-attribution and licensing concern and is independent of whether the contribution otherwise requires disclosure under the rules above.

## AI-Autonomous Contributions

All contributions to OpenSSF repositories must have a responsible human who directed the work and can explain and defend it. Fully autonomous AI contributions — where an agent acts independently without meaningful human oversight of the specific output — are not accepted by default.

### Rationale

Autonomous AI agents can produce high volumes of contributions without the human accountability that open source collaboration depends on. This creates disproportionate review burden, degrades signal-to-noise in issue trackers, and undermines the authentic human engagement that sustains open source communities. No step in the contribution workflow should happen without a human in the loop.

### Details

The following autonomous agent behaviors are not acceptable:

> - **Automated PR submission**: Agents opening pull requests without a human reviewing and approving the specific changes before submission

Reviewer 10: I've heard of a few cases where agents submit vulnerability fixes without going through proper reporting channels. This is related but I think separate from Automated PR submission.

- **Automated issue filing**: Agents filing bug reports or feature requests without a human verifying the issue reflects a genuine, real-world use case
- **Issue claiming**: Agents claiming issues (especially "good first issue" labels) without a human intending to personally follow through on the work
- **Automated review comments**: Agents posting unsolicited code review feedback on others' pull requests
- **Automated discussion responses**: Agents responding in issue or discussion threads without human oversight of the specific response

A human using an AI development tool to *draft* any of the above — and then reviewing, editing, and submitting the output themselves — is an **AI-assisted** contribution, not an AI-autonomous one, and is acceptable under this policy.

### Exceptions

> **GitHub Apps and bots authorized through OpenSSF governance processes prior to the effective date of this policy** (e.g., Dependabot, Scorecard, CI bots) are not subject to this policy. They predate it and are governed by their own approval processes. Bots authorized on or after that date are subject to this policy and must satisfy its requirements through whatever autonomous-behavior pathway the policy provides.

Reviewer 5: Should we instead have a written down list of the exceptions and a process for adding new bots to that list?

I'm imagining we might build bots that would benefit the repositories, e.g., in a manner similar to Kusari Inspector, and the creators would want to exempt that bot too.

Reviewer 10: +1

Reviewer 11: Came here to comment the same. I think we should have the option in the policy to allow TIs to define and use wanted autonomous behavior - and provide the TI with controls (or a mandate) to avoid unwanted autonomous contributions.

Individual TIs may permit specific autonomous agent behaviors in their repositories by documenting them in `AGENTS.md`. To be valid, a permitted behavior must:

- Be scoped to specific actions, not open-ended autonomy. For example, "post a structured CI summary on PRs" is in scope; "act on PRs" is not.
- Have a named maintainer team (ideally, more than one person) accountable for the agent's outputs and for revoking access if the behavior becomes harmful
- Identify the agent's account or bot username so reviewers can recognize it in the contribution stream.
- Be revocable by any maintainer if the behavior produces low-quality, off-target, or harmful output.

> Permitted autonomous behaviors do not waive DCO, contributor responsibility, or the maintainer's authority to close or revert outputs. A TI may not use this mechanism to permit categories of autonomous activity that this policy explicitly prohibits in the [Details](#details) section above.

Reviewer 11: Similar to the comments above: this may be too restrictive. I'd remove or soften this restriction and give TIs a process to allowing certain kinds of bots.

- Close AI-generated issues that lack genuine use cases or real-world context
- Remove or flag AI-generated review comments that are unsolicited or misleading
- Reclaim issues that were claimed by automated agents without follow-through

When closing or removing AI-generated content, use a respectful, consistent rationale that references this policy.

### Proactive Recommendations

- Apply the project's existing commit conventions to AI-assisted contributions the same way as any other contribution. Projects without commit conventions may consider adopting basic standards (e.g., conventional commits, "what/why" format, squash-on-merge policy).
- **Reduce the attack surface for low-quality AI contributions proactively:**
  - Keep `CONTRIBUTING.md`, `README.md`, and issue templates current — outdated or vague guidance increases the likelihood that AI agents produce off-target submissions.
  - Minimize unnecessary dependency sprawl — each dependency is an additional surface for automated "bump" or "fix" PRs.
  - Use clear, specific "good first issue" labels and remove stale ones — AI agents often target these labels for automated issue claiming.

## AGENTS.md in OpenSSF Repositories

> OpenSSF repositories should include an `AGENTS.md` file to set expectations for AI agent behavior.

Reviewer 10: Do we want to make this a requirement for mature Tis (e.g., at Graduated stage)? Either way, we probably want to add a line for TIs to point to their `AGENTS.md` file along with the other URLs in the lifecycle doc templates.

Reviewer 4: I don't think this needs to be required. Projects have an inherent interest in doing so since it is for their own good.

- **Tool-agnostic content only.** Do not reference specific vendors or products. The file should work with any AI coding agent.
- **No confidential information.** Do not include non-public architecture details, infrastructure references, or information that is not already public in the repo.
- **Project-specific instructions.** Focus on contribution standards, testing requirements, coding conventions, and review expectations specific to the project.
- **Keep it maintained.** An outdated `AGENTS.md` is worse than none — it will produce contributions that don't match current project expectations. Treat it as a living document alongside `CONTRIBUTING.md`.
- **Maintainer-controlled.** `AGENTS.md` and other agent configuration files are maintained by project maintainers. Pull requests from external contributors that modify agent configuration files require explicit maintainer review and approval. This prevents tool-specific config sprawl and keeps agent instructions consistent with the project's contribution standards, while still allowing good-faith fixes (typos, broken links, outdated commands) to be reviewed on their merits.

> For security-specific agent instructions, TIs should reference the [Security-Focused Guide for AI Code Assistant Instructions](https://best.openssf.org/Security-Focused-Guide-for-AI-Code-Assistant-Instructions) published by the OpenSSF Best Practices Working Group.

Reviewer 12: I think we might want to throw in there that files like AGENTS.md should also be considered security sensitive or in some way privileged. There's been a bunch of research lately showing that attacks against AGENTS.md and things like memory files are an effective way of getting AI agents whether they're on a contributor's workstation or as part of an agentic flow like copilot to act maliciously. 

In absence of any specific guidance, I think recommending its treated the same way as any other sensitive file, e.g., CODEOWNERS or a Github action would be a good idea.

Reviewer 9: [mlieberman85](https://github.com/mlieberman85) - a change to *any* file could be a security concern, though. Are you simply suggesting that "reviewers should especially look at changes this in this file when reviewing"?  Or are you thinking of something more specific/enforced, e.g., adding branch protection rules that require additional rules when changing this file? Beware: Many agents have an agent-specific file you'd need to protect if you mean the latter, e.g., "CLAUDE.md" for Claude Code, etc.

Reviewer 5: I'm leaning towards specific branch protection rules for changes to AGENTS.md and similar files. Maybe a specific CI workflow that would use AI to analyze the changes to these files, triggered by maintainers after reviewing the PR (to prevent prompt injection)?

Reviewer 9: @mihaimaruseac - that makes sense! Can we clarify this text to make that more obvious?
